<story>
<title>After hiccups, education reform bills cleared </title>
<date>22-1-2010</date>
<content> NEW Delhi: Notwithstanding the initial hiccups,  HRD ministry's two major Bills that promise to change the face of higher education -- accreditation of higher educational institutions and setting up of educational tribunals -- were cleared by the Group of Ministers with minor changes in the very first meeting on Thursday.   The third Bill that seeks to check educational malpractices will be taken up in the next meeting since defence minister AK Antony could not be present on Thursday.   The minor changes relate to the number of appeals that an aggrieved party can make in case of educational tribunals. In case of accreditation agency, it has been resolved that educational agencies under various ministries including HRD will be brought under it. "By and large, nothing much has changed. Jurisdictionally both the Bills remain the same," sources said.   A senior official said the ministry expects to table the two Bills in the budget session of Parliament and expects them to become law by the monsoon session. "We hope the reforms will be on track," he said, adding that ministry will soon go to the Cabinet after incorporating the minor changes.   HRD's reform in case of accreditation seeks to end the monopoly of government-run accreditation agencies for institutions of higher education. Under the proposed law, accreditation will be opened for multiple accreditation agencies, mostly private, with their action being monitored by a regulator. The regulator -- National Authority for Regulation in Accreditation of Higher Educational Institutions -- will be a five-member body on the lines of Sebi, and will register accreditation agencies.   The Bill envisages that once these members demit office after their five-year term they would not be eligible for further employment in any higher educational institution promoted by the Central or state government.   Accreditation agencies will accredit institutions on a host of outcomes like teaching, learning and research, human resource and research infrastructure, placement, governance structures and course curricula. Every institution will have to get accredited and make public how it has been rated by the agency.   The educational tribunal Bill envisages a two-tier structure to deal with disputes between students and institutions, teachers and institutions as well as disputes related to affiliation, unfair means adopted by students in examination and by institutions.   It proposes a National Educational Tribunal (NET) at the top. It will have the power to settle any dispute between a higher educational institution and any regulatory body except in matters of recognition. It will also adjudicate any dispute between any two or more statutory regulatory bodies. NET will also adjudicate any dispute related to matters of affiliation between a higher educational institution and the affiliating university, where such a university is a Central Educational Institution. At the state level will be the State Educational Tribunal (SET). </content>
</story>