<story>
<title>Sonia Gandhi asks for nationally-aligned minimum wage </title>
<date>13-11-2010</date>
<content> NEW DELHI: UPA chairperson  Sonia Gandhi has written to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh recommending that wages paid under the UPA's flagship rural employment guarantee scheme be reconciled with statutory minimum wages. If implemented, this will affect workers in 19 states where the states' minimum wage exceeds the centrally fixed Rs 100 daily wage under the scheme.   In January 2009, the Centre froze wages to be paid under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) at Rs 100 as it was felt that some states tended to increase the minimum wage arbitrarily. The  minimum wages of 19 states, including Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Karnataka and Kerala, are higher than Rs 100.   Consequently, workers under MGNREGS are being paid less than the statutory minimum wage. ''This is a totally unacceptable situation and needs to be corrected at once,'' says the background note attached by Sonia to her letter to the PM, written on Thursday. ''The payment of wage below minimum wage would amount to forced labour,'' noted Additional Solicitor General Indira Jaising in her legal opinion, also attached by Sonia.   Labour groups in Andhra Pradesh went to the high court against the issue and the ministry's notification stands suspended until further orders in AP. The chief ministers of AP and Rajasthan wrote to the PM requesting the reconciliation of wages to minimum wage levels.   The Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan led by Magsaysay awardee Aruna  Roy has been sitting in dharna in Jaipur for a month now on this issue. The matter was also raised by Roy, economist Jean Dreze and Right To Food campaigner Harsh Mander in the meetings of the National Advisory Council chaired by Sonia. On October 23, members of the NAC reached a consensus on this issue, she has written in her note to the PM.   The background note to the letter suggests that the practical solution to the situation would be for the Centre to immediately notify the prevailing minimum wage rates in each state as the rate to be paid under the NREGA with a stipulation that the approved minimum wage would then be indexed to inflation as measured by the consumer price index for agricultural labour.   As for future increases beyond the inflation adjustment, it suggests that the MNERGS rates be arrived at through a tripartite consultative process involving the Centre, the state governments and representatives of workers. Such a process, the note suggests, would protect the interests of the workers while removing the fiscal uncertainty that characterises a situation in which states can arbitrarily hike wage rates while the Centre has to foot the bill. </content>
</story>