<story>
<title>SC allows Centre to take over Bhopal Memorial Hospital Trust </title>
<date>19-7-2010</date>
<content> NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday allowed the  Centre to take over the management of the Bhopal Memorial Hospital Trust running super-speciality treatment centres for the 1984 gas victims.   The apex court also accepted the resignation of former Chief Justice  A M Ahmadi as the chairman of the Bhopal Memorial Hospital Trust.   A bench comprising Chief Justice S H Kapadia and Justices K S Radhakrishnan and Swatanter Kumar allowed the Centre to take steps to wind up the trust and run the hospital, PTI reported. Attorney General G E Vahanvati conveyed the decision of the Centre to take over the management of the hospital.   The department of bio-technology and the department of atomic energy will coordinate in the management of BMHT, strengthen and upgrade it and run it as a super-speciality research hospital for the benefit of gas disaster victims, the government informed the  SC on Monday.   Former CJI A M Ahmadi was appointed the chairman of BMHT on May 15, 1998 and 10 years later he had first written to then CJI K G Balakrishnan seeking to be relieved from the post. He had reiterated his request in his June 20, 2009, letter, which is on the board of the Bench headed by CJI Kapadia on Monday.   BMHT has an interesting history. Pursuant to the SC orders, Union Carbide had set up a charitable trust in  London on March 20, 1992 called 'Bhopal Hospital Trust' with Sir Ian Percival as its sole trustee. The MP government had granted, free of cost, approximately 80 acres of land for the construction of the hospital. UCC extended limited financial support by sale of its shares and the Centre augmented it by waiving capital gains tax thereon.   Following the death of Percival, the "Bhopal Memorial Hospital Trust" was established in accordance with the apex court's orders in 1998 with ex-CJI Ahmadi as its chairman.   The Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC) became functional in July 2000. It has eight mini-centres. There are six hospitals, nine day-care centres, three Unani, three Homeopathic and three Ayurveda dispensaries run by BMHRC. </content>
</story>