<story>
<title>'Arrogant' Karat to blame for Left's plight: Somnath Chatterjee </title>
<date>25-7-2010</date>
<content> NEW DELHI:  Former Lok Sabha Speaker Somnath Chatterjee's tell-all  autobiography not only chronicles the drama that led to his expulsion from the  CPM and the Left's withdrawal of support to UPA-I, it launches a scathing attack on "arrogant and intolerant" CPM boss  Prakash Karat. He writes that Karat has been responsible for making the Left movement "irrelevant".   The book, titled " Keeping the Faith: Memoirs of a Parliamentarian", will be released by PM  Manmohan Singh on August 21. Excerpts, exclusively seen by TOI, have Chatterjee bitterly attacking Karat and other members of the current leadership for becoming conceited because they were being consulted by the PM. He says they lost perspective and left the CPM at the mercy of "political marauders".   Chatterjee also discloses that his mentor, the late Jyoti Basu, had defied the leadership and the party line to advise him to not resign as Speaker. He had even communicated this to Sitaram Yechury, but Chatterjee wonders if Basu's views were really debated by the leadership.   Chatterjee says his expulsion was totally undemocratic. "When I refused to bow to the party's diktat...Prakash Karat gave vent to his ire by summarily expelling me...it was the saddest day ... since the passing away of my parents." Chatterjee says the decision was taken by just five members of a 17-member politburo and even that was not unanimous.   "That his (Karat's) arrogance and intolerance had reached a peak was clearly demonstrated by the fact that he decided to expel me summarily, without even a show-cause notice. that anyone in the party could defy his diktat was inconceivable to him!"   The veteran Communist believes that the "Karat line" of brinkmanship on the Indo-US nuclear deal is to blame for the Left's rout in its strongholds. With the CPM currently reeling in  West Bengal (in Kerala, too, it won just four seat in the 2009 LS polls), Chatterjee's criticism of Karat may reflect the differences between the Bengal party and the central Marxist leadership.   In the book that is published by HarperCollins, Chatterjee narrates how  Jyoti Basu advised him to preside over the trust motion as the Speaker and that Chatterjee had mentioned it to Sitaram Yechury. He writes: "...I have received a lot of guidance...from Jyoti Basu... I felt I should take his opinion at that critical juncture. I met him in Kolkata on July 12, 2008 and showed him my communication with the party... he advised me that I should preside over the proceedings of the  House on the confidence motion. My resignation, he felt as I too believed, would suggest that I was compromising my position as Speaker and allowing my actions to be dictated by my party, which would be wholly unethical..."   He further writes, "Around 15/16 July 2008, Yechury came to my residence...I informed him about what had transpired during my meeting with Basu, who, as I was told by a reliable source, had sent a note to the general secretary (Karat). I do not know whether this note was placed at the politburo meeting or circulated...   "The first thing the party did the following day...was to hold a meeting of five local members of the politburo, which has a membership of 17." Two days later, he got an expulsion notice, which said "unanimously". "Later, I understood that even among the five, the decision had not been taken by a majority," he adds.   "Prakash Karat met me at my residence a few days after the party had decided to withdraw support... He said he felt insulted and betrayed... on the Indo-US nuclear deal. Because of what he called breach of promise, the party, according to him, had no option but to break with the UPA. In 2004, CPM had decided to support the UPA from outside," Chatterjee writes, to keep "the perceived greatest evil, a BJP-led NDA from coming to power...The party did not join the UPA government as it did not want to be held responsible for the government's acts... When the matter of joining the government came up, I had expressed my reservations about remaining outside...   "The PM and other senior leaders of the UPA were regularly meeting Karat and other Left leaders for every proposed action...the Left leaders were wielding the real authority...Thus, leaders like Karat, Bardhan and others came to acquire a larger-than-life image and influence. Too much proximity to the PM and the UPA chairperson and the accommodative attitude of the government... gave the latter the belief, if not the conviction, that their decisions would be the last word... they forgot their true strength in the House and wanted their decisions to be treated as final."   Chatterjee links this spell of Left arrogance with its electoral debacle. "In May 2009, the Left, as I had apprehended... suffered a major debacle... thanks to the disastrous policies and misguided actions of the current leadership... the Leftist movement in the country has become almost irrelevant and comrades who made sacrifices to build the party have become victims of political marauders." </content>
</story>