<story>
<title>GJM calls two bandhs to revive demand for Gorkhaland </title>
<date>13-5-2010</date>
<content> SILIGURI: With the administrative-level tripartite talks on  Gorkhaland failing to yield results, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) on Thursday announced its plans to revive its agitation for a separate state by calling for two bandhs.   The party has called for a two-day  bandh from May 15 and then a 10-day one from June 12.    GJM president Bimal Gurung, who had earlier sent a proposal to the Centre for an interim set-up in the hills till December 31, 2011, told a public meeting in Kalimpong that the party was going back to its demand for Gorkhaland.   The reason for the revival of the demand was the failure of the administrative level tripartite talks on May 11 in Delhi over territorial jurisdiction of the interim hill council, which should include Siliguri and the adjoining Dooars and Terai, GJM assistant secretary Benoy Tamang told PTI.   "Since the demand for inclusion of Siliguri and adjoining areas in the interim hill council has been turned down, we will not settle for anything less than a separate state of Gorkhaland," Tamang said.   Also the proposed political level tripartite talks at the end of this month should have the territorial demand of the GJM on its agenda, or else it would not participate, he said.   If the territorial demand was conceded, he said, the GJM could rethink its decision on the 10-day bandh in June.   Meanwhile, Bangla o Bangla Bhasa Banchao Samiti, an anti-Gorkhaland organisation, has called a 24-hour bandh in West Bengal tomorrow in protest against talks being held with the GJM.   An indefinite office bandh in the Darjeeling hills entered the fourth day today, affecting functioning of the administration.   West Bengal Home Secretary Samar Ghosh, who represented the state at the tripartite talks had said yesterday that state government wanted the interim authority to be set up first before determining its territorial jurisdiction.   Toy train services between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling were suspended from today till further notice. </content>
</story>