<story>
<title>PCB submits Lahore terror attack reports to ICC </title>
<date>17-8-2010</date>
<content> KARACHI: After much delay, the  Pakistan Cricket Board has finally sent to the ICC, the inquiry report of last year's  Lahore terror attack on the Sri Lankan team.   An  ICC spokesman confirmed that the report has been received on August 3 but declined to make any further comments on the issue.   "The report is confidential and the ICC would not like to make any comments on it," he said.   PCB chairman  Ejaz Butt told the 'Dawn' newspaper that the report had been sent to the ICC following the approval of the Punjab government under whose jurisdiction the judicial inquiry was carried out by Justice Shabbar Hasan Rizvi of the Lahore High Court.   He submitted a 600 page report on the attack, which left many Sri Lankan cricketers injured.   "The board sent the report (on Lahore terror incident) to the ICC about one month ago after seeking the approval of the Punjab government," Butt said.   "As the Punjab government had sent a copy of the judicial inquiry report to the PCB with the instruction to keep it confidential, we were not in a position to forward the report to the ICC initially. But soon after the Punjab government allowed us, the PCB dispatched the report to the international body (ICC)," he added.   Terrorists attacked the Sri Lankan team bus on March 3 last year in Lahore, an incident which shocked the cricket world and led to a total refusal by foreign teams to tour Pakistan for international matches.   The ICC also moved away the 2011 World Cup matches from Pakistan because of security concerns raised by participating teams in the tournament.   Six Pakistani policemen and a van driver were killed in the vicious attack which also left five Sri Lankan players wounded and forced the visiting team to call off the tour.   Judge Shabbar Raza, during the course of his inquiry, interrogated various police and security officials of the Punjab government, besides the PCB chairman and other board officials.   Justice Shabbar's report pointed out weaknesses in the security arrangements made by the Punjab government and also held several senior police officials responsible for negligence of duty and in failing to provide proper security to the visiting team.   Former ICC president  Ehsan Mani has constantly blamed the PCB for dragging its feet on sending the report to the governing body. </content>
</story>