<story>
<title>Housing scam: We need more time, says Pranab </title>
<date>31-10-2010</date>
<content> NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The high-level Congress panel looking into the Adarsh housing controversy needs more time to study documents,  Pranab Mukherjee said on Sunday after his meeting with fellow panel member A K Antony.   Earlier in the day, amid reports that more leaders from Congress and NCP from Maharashtra could have links with the controversial Adarsh housing society, three ex-Maharashtra chief ministers and a NCP leader on Sunday claimed they had not recommended any case for membership.   Union minister Vilasrao  Deshmukh and present revenue minister Narayan Rane--both former CMs--and Maharashtra water resources minister Ajit Pawar, who is the nephew of NCP supremo and union minister  Sharad Pawar, rejected the allegations against them as an attempt to defame them.   Union minister Sushilkumar Shinde, also a former CM, said only newspapers were making a "hue and cry" on the Adarsh housing society issue.   The comments by Deshmukh, Pawar, Rane and Shinde came against the backdrop of reports by TV channels alleging that some top Maharashtra Congress-NCP leaders recommended and pushed for flats in the Adarsh society for their associates and persons known to them.   As more skeletons tumbled out of the scam in the 31-storey upscale residential complex on the land originally meant for Kargil war heroes and widows, a blame game also erupted.   Deshmukh said he did approve the letter of intent (LoI) of 20 people who wanted to become members of the society. But he did so after a recommendation was allegedly made by current chief minister Ashok Chavan, the then state revenue minister.   "The list had come for my approval only for counter signature and you do it in good faith," he said.   Deshmukh's statement comes in the wake of reports that three of his aides own flats in the society.   "I had not recommended anybody's case. There is nobody in the society who can claim to be my relative or near and dear one...This appears to be a conspiracy to defame me," Deshmukh said.   Chavan is already in the eye of a storm after his relatives were among the beneficiaries and his continuance is to be decided by the Congress high command.   Shinde said "nothing much was happening in Delhi on the Adarsh front".   "Nothing much is happening. It is only the newspapers who are making a hue and cry," he added.   Rane refuted reports that he had a role in allocation of a flat to a member of the society considered close to him.    Ajit Pawar said he to nothing to do with the Adarsh housing society scam.   "Show me even one person who is either a relative or someone I know who is a member of the society," he said.   "I have not recommended anyone's name for membership," Pawar added.    Chavan to meet Pranab tonight    A day after offering to step down, embattled Maharashtra chief minister  Ashok Chavan is expected to meet senior Congress leader Pranab Mukherjee on Sunday night to present his side of the story on the Adarsh housing society scam.   Mukherjee, who was in Murshidabad in  West Bengal, told television channels that he did not know much about the issue at the moment and would look into its details after his return to Delhi on Sunday evening.   The  finance minister along with his cabinet colleague and defence minister A K Antony have been asked by Congress chief  Sonia Gandhi to submit a report on the scam.   "I am yet to look at the details on the issue. I will prepare a report on it along with Antony," he said.   Chavan, who had on Saturday offered to resign after an hour-long meeting with Gandhi, is likely to meet Mukherjee once he returns to the capital.   Responding to late night summons from the Congress high command, Chavan flew here on Saturday to meet Gandhi.   The meeting took place in the backdrop of three of Chavan's close relatives having been among the 103 allottees in the 31-storeyed Adarsh group housing society building in Mumbai in which several politicians, three former defence service chiefs and bureaucrats have cornered flats originally meant for Kargil heroes.   51-year old Chavan, who was a surprise choice for chief ministership in December 2008, himself told reporters after the meeting that he had offered to resign. The party President would take a call on the issue.   Action on Chavan's resignation would be taken after the report is submitted.   When asked about the controversy, Mukherjee told reporters that there was no committee as such.   "Chavan met Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Sonia Gandhi has asked me and Antony to look into the relevant papers and give our observations to her."   He said Ashok Chavan had expressed his desire to tender resignation to the Congress president.   "Before she takes a decision, she asked us to examine the papers and give our observations...How can I sitting in Murshidabad and Mr Antony sitting in Delhi meet. We will meet in Delhi," he said.  </content>
</story>